1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

a. Making coffee

FUNCTION makeCoffee
	DETERMINE amount of coffee needed
	PUT in coffee maker
	DETERMINE amount of water needed
	PUT in coffee maker
	START coffee machine
	POUR coffee into cup
	IF (sugar is required)
		THEN add sugar
		ELSE don’t add sugar
	ENDIF
		Serve
FUNCTION END

b. Washing dishes

FUNCTION washDishes
	INIT sink of soapy water
	GATHER dirty dishes and place into soapy water
	REPEAT wash dishes
		RINSE dishes
	UNTIL all dishes are clean
	END
	DRY dishes
	PUT aways dishes
END FUNCTION

c. FUNCTION bakeCake
	SET oven to 350 degrees
	GATHER recipe inputs 
	MIX recipe inputs into batter
	POUR batter into pan
	BAKE for 50 minutes
	IF (cake does not spring back)
		BAKE an additional 5 minutes
	ELSE Remove from oven
		SET on wire rack to cool
	ENDIF
END FUNCTION

2. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

a. OKCupid - OKCupid created an algorithm for online dating that matches prospective dates. Users answer questions and then rate them based on importance and OKCupid uses that data to find compatible matches. This is more sophisticated than other online dating applications and (may) produce greater likelihood of successful matches that other online dating sites.

b. NotCo is a Chilean startup that is using a machine-learning algorithm to create plant-based products. For example, they have a database of several plant products and the algorithm combines those flavors/textures/ingredients to create new products. They can also input constraints to take into account manufacturing and product inputs. They recently pitched their process to Hershey’s as a way to make chocolate that tastes like it contains 25% cacao but only contains 15% cacao.

c. Uber’s algorithm picks the closest available driver for each rider. The first step is people select the service, then the request is made to all the drivers available and the details/job is sent to the nearest driver who can accept or reject. Uber revolutionized transportation to make it cheaper and more efficient. In many cities, including Lincoln, Nebraska, studies have shown this has reduced rates of drunk driving convictions.

3. Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.
An efficient algorithm minimizes the amount of resources (time/space) that is uses to solve a problem. Efficiency can be measured on the speed or minimum memory (resource usage) or another benchmark. An inefficient algorithm may have too many steps or use up too much data to solve the problem.